---
title: llvm front end
date: 2023-11-21
permalink: /pages/000001/
---

llvm front end demo
Notes from **Life of an instruction in LLVM**
https://blog.llvm.org/2012/11/life-of-instruction-in-llvm.html

### 1. Clang parser will build an Abstract Syntax Tree(AST) and then goes on to emit LLVM IR
### 2. LLVM Target Independent
### 3. SelectionDAG Node<br/>
   SelectionDAGBuild creates SDGNode<br/>
   SelectionDAGIsel goes over all IR instructions and calls SelectionDAGBuilder::visit to Dispatch them<br/>
   We can use -debug or -view to get log or dump image of the graph<br/>
### 4. To emit machine instructions, LLVM will legalize the operation<br/>
   Use target-specific hooks to convert all operations and types into ones that the target actually supports.
   This is done by **TargetLowering**. <br/>
   SelectionDAGLegalize::LegalizeOp
### 5. Instruction selection from SDNode to MachineSNDode<br/>
   SelectionDAGISel::Select<br/>
   SelectCode<br/>
   This step will create MachineSDNode, a subclass of SDNode which holds the information required to construct an actual machine instruction, but still in DAG node form. 
### 6. Scheduling and emitting a MachineInstr<br/>
   Translate SDNode into Machine Instructions with InstrEmitter::EmitMachineNode, emmit into MachineBasicBlock.
   Here the instruction are in linear form (MI). No DAG any more.<br/>
   **-print-machineinstrs**<br/>
   Still SSA form.
### 7. Register Allocation<br/>
   For instructions that can only support fixed registers, it is already allocated. Here the virtual registers are allocated into physical registers. This assignment is done by X86DAGToDAGISel::Select.<br/>
   After this, another round of optimization is conducted, TargetPassConfig::addMachinePasses.
### 8. From MachineInstruction to MCinst
   JIT: AsmPrinter::EmitInstruction<br/>
   Obj: ObjectStreamer::EmitInstruction<br/>
