---
title: HBM_Paper_List
date: 2023-05-08 
permalink: /pages/24769e/
---

1. Baryon: Efficient Hybrid Memory Management with Compression and Sub-Blocking
2. CAMEO:A Two-Level Memory Organization with Capacity of Main Memory and Flexibility of Hardware-Managed Cache
3. Hybrid2: Combining Caching and Migration in Hybrid Memory Systems
4. SILC-FM: Subblocked InterLeaved Cache-Like Flat Memory Organization
5. MemPod: A Clustered Architecture for Efficient and Scalable Migration in Flat Address Space Multi-level Memories
6. Transparent Hardware Management of Stacked DRAM as Part of Memory
7. CHAMELEON: A Dynamically Reconfigurable Heterogeneous Memory System
8. BATMAN: Techniques for Maximizing System Bandwidth of Memory Systems with Stacked-DRAM
9. Heterogeneous Memory Architectures: A HW/SW Approach for Mixing Die-stacked and Off-package Memories
10. Challenges in Heterogeneous Die-Stacked and Off-Chip Memory Systems
11. Banshee: Bandwidth-Efficient DRAM Caching Via Software/Hardware Cooperation
12. Die-Stacked DRAM: Memory, Cache, or MemCache?

---
#### 2. CAMEO:A Two-Level Memory Organization with Capacity of Main Memory and Flexibility of Hardware-Managed Cache
##### MemPod:

CAMEO [13] proposes a cache-like flat address space memory management scheme in an attempt to close the gap between cache and flat memory organizations. CAMEO operates similarly to THM, however it does so at the granularity of cache lines (64B). Migrations are restricted within segments with one fast line location per segment. Its bookkeeping structures are entirely stored in memory, while a “Line Location Predictor” attempts to save some bookkeeping-related accesses by predicting the location of a line. 

CAMEO initiates a line migration upon every access to slow memory.

CAMEO can incur high migration traffic as every access could induce a migration.

---
#### 5. MemPod: A Clustered Architecture for Efficient and Scalable Migration in Flat Address Space Multi-level Memories
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hitqshao/qishao-notes/main/docs/attach_git/mempod_compare.PNG

---
#### 6. Transparent Hardware Management of Stacked DRAM as Part of Memory
##### MemPod:
Sim, et al. proposed a technique for transparent hardware management of a hybrid memory system [17],which we will refer to as “THM”. THM does not require OS intervention while managing migrations. In order to keep bookkeeping costs manageable, THM allows migrations only within sets of pages (called segments). Each segment includes one fast memory page and a set of slow memory pages. The slow pages of each segment can only migrate to the one fast page location, and any such migration results in the eviction of the currently-residing page. THM monitors memory accesses with one “competing counter” per segment resulting in a low cost profiling solution. Finally, THM supports caching part of its structures on chip while the rest is stored in memory.

THM’s competing counters can lead to false positives, allowing a cold page to migrate to fast memory.

---
#### 9. Heterogeneous Memory Architectures: A HW/SW Approach for Mixing Die-stacked and Off-package Memories
##### MemPod:
HMA [14] is a HW/SW mechanism that attempts to predict frequently accessed pages in memory and, at predefined intervals, migrate those pages to fast memory. HW support is required for profiling memory accesses using counters for each memory page, while the migration is handled by the OS. Due to the costly OS involvement, HMA’s intervals are kept large. Additionally, the hardware cost of its profiling counters is high. However, HMA is capable of managing migrations in a flat address space without the need of additional bookkeeping for finding migrated pages as the OS can update page tables and TLBs to reflect migrations.
